

[[cls_5]]
== Overview of CityGML

CityGML is an open data model and XML-based format for the storage and exchange
of virtual 3D city models. It is an application schema for the Geography Markup
Language version 3.1.1 (GML3), the extendible international standard for spatial
data exchange issued by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) and the ISO TC211.

The aim of the development of CityGML is to reach a common definition of the
basic entities, attributes, and relations of a 3D city model. This is especially
important with respect to the cost-effective sustainable maintenance of 3D city
models, allowing the reuse of the same data in different application fields.

CityGML not only represents the graphical appearance of city models but
specifically addresses the representation of the semantic and thematic
properties, taxonomies and aggregations. CityGML includes a geometry model and a
thematic model. The geometry model allows for the consistent and homogeneous
definition of geometrical and topological properties of spatial objects within
3D city models (<<cls_8>>). The base class of all objects is &#95;__CityObject__
which is a subclass of the GML class &#95;__Feature__. All objects inherit the
properties from &#95;__CityObject__.

The thematic model of CityGML employs the geometry model for different thematic
fields like Digital Terrain Models, sites (i.e. buildings, bridges, and
tunnels), vegetation (solitary objects and also areal and volumetric biotopes),
land use, water bodies, transportation facilities, and city furniture
(<<cls_10>>). Further objects, which are not explicitly modelled yet, can be
represented using the concept of generic objects and attributes (<<scls_6-11>>).
In addition, extensions to the CityGML data model applying to specific
application fields can be realised using the Application Domain Extensions (ADE)
(<<scls_6-12>>). Spatial objects of equal shape which appear many times at
different positions like e.g. trees, can also be modelled as prototypes and used
multiple times in the city model (<<scls_8-2>>). A grouping concept allows the
combination of single 3D objects, e.g. buildings to a building complex
(<<scls_6-8>>). Objects which are not geometrically modelled by closed solids
can be virtually sealed in order to compute their volume (e.g. pedestrian
underpasses, tunnels, or airplane hangars). They can be closed using
_ClosureSurfaces_ (<<scls_6-4>>). The concept of the _TerrainIntersectionCurve_
is introduced to integrate 3D objects with the Digital Terrain Model at their
correct positions in order to prevent e.g. buildings from floating over or
sinking into the terrain (<<scls_6-5>>).

CityGML differentiates five consecutive Levels of Detail (LOD), where objects
become more detailed with increasing LOD regarding both their geometry and
thematic differentiation (<<scls_6-2>>). CityGML files can - but do not have to
- contain multiple representations (and geometries) for each object in different
LOD simultaneously. Generalisation relations allow the explicit representation
of aggregated objects over different scales.

In addition to spatial properties, CityGML features can be assigned appearances.
Appearances are not limited to visual data but represent arbitrary observable
properties of the feature's surface such as infrared radiation, noise pollution,
or earthquake-induced structural stress (<<cls_9>>).

Furthermore, objects can have external references to corresponding objects in
external datasets (<<scls_6-7>>). The possible attribute values of enumerative
object attributes can be enumerated in code lists defined in external,
redefinable dictionaries (<<scls_6-6>>).
